docs/Accessing-AI-Services-in-JavaScript.md, before:

[Back to overview](./README.md)

# Accessing AI Services in JavaScript

This section provides some documentation on how to access AI services in JavaScript. This is relevant for any plugins that would like to generate content via client-side logic.

The canonical entry point to all of the JavaScript public APIs is the "ai-services/ai" datastore registered in WordPress's `wp.data` registry. The store object exposes various selectors that should be used to access the AI services. The concrete usage is best outlined by examples. For illustrative purposes, here is a full example of generating text content using the `google` service:

```js
const { isServiceAvailable, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( isServiceAvailable( 'google' ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
	try {
		const candidates = await service.generateText(
			'What can I do with WordPress?',
			{ feature: 'my-test-feature' }
		);
	} catch ( error ) {
		// Handle the error.
	}
}
```

Alternatively to hard-coding `'ai-services/ai'` for the store name, you can reference `aiServices.ai.store` from the `aiServices` JavaScript global.

Note that any of the selectors may temporarily return `undefined`, which should be interpreted as that the services are being loaded. **A return value of `undefined` does not mean that something was not found.** For that, the value `null` is used.

Additionally, calling `service.generateText` the above code example is a short-hand for retrieving the model using `service.getModel` and then calling `model.generateText`. For reference, the following code example does exactly the same as above, but more verbosely. With that approach, instead of passing the model parameters to the `generateText` method, you pass them to the `getModel` method, and the returned model will then use them for any generation tasks invoked on it. This approach can make sense if you want to reuse the same model for multiple generation tasks.

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;
const { isServiceAvailable, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( isServiceAvailable( 'google' ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
	try {
		const model = service.getModel(
			{
				feature: 'my-test-feature',
				capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
			}
		);
		const candidates = await model.generateText(
			'What can I do with WordPress?'
		);
	} catch ( error ) {
		// Handle the error.
	}
}
```

These short-hands exist for all generation methods on the model instance. You may instead call the respective method on the service instance, passing the model parameters as additional argument to it.

For more specific examples with explanations, see the following sections. In those examples, the short-hand syntax will be used.

## Retrieving an available AI service

To use any AI capabilities, you first have to retrieve an available AI service. Which AI services are available depends on the end user, e.g. the site owner. They are free to configure any of the registered AI services with credentials. While many sites will likely only have one AI service configured, some sites may have all services configured (e.g. if the site owner has subscriptions with all of them or if they are free to use).

### Using a specific AI service

You can pass the slug of a specific AI service to the `getAvailableService()` selector. Before doing so, it is recommended to first check whether the service available (i.e. configured by the user with valid credentials), using the `isServiceAvailable()` selector:

```js
const { isServiceAvailable, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( isServiceAvailable( 'google' ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

Alternatively, if you don't want to use the `isServiceAvailable()` selector, you need to check whether the `getAvailableService()` selector does not return `null`:

```js
const { getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
if ( service !== null ) {
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

### Using any available AI service

For many AI use-cases, relying on different AI services may be feasible. For example, to respond to a simple text prompt, you could use _any_ AI service that supports text generation. If so, it is advised to not require usage of a _specific_ AI service, so that the end user can configure whichever service they prefer and still use the relevant AI functionality you're implementing in your plugin. You can do so by passing arguments to the `hasAvailableServices()` and `getAvailableService()` selectors for which capabilities you require for what you intend to do (for example to generate text):

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

const SERVICE_ARGS = { capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ] };
const { hasAvailableServices, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( hasAvailableServices( SERVICE_ARGS ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( SERVICE_ARGS );
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

Alternatively, if you don't want to use the `hasAvailableServices()` selector, you need to check whether the `getAvailableService()` selector does not return `null`:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

const SERVICE_ARGS = { capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ] };
const { hasAvailableServices, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
const service = getAvailableService( SERVICE_ARGS );
if ( service !== null ) {
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

In some instances, you may have a preference for a few specific AI services that work well for your AI use-case - in those cases you can pass multiple slugs, to retrieve whichever one the user has configured:

```js
const SERVICE_ARGS = { slugs: [ 'google', 'openai' ] };
const { hasAvailableServices, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( hasAvailableServices( SERVICE_ARGS ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( SERVICE_ARGS );
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

## Generating text content using an AI service

Once you have retrieved an AI service, you can use it to get a text response to a prompt. You need to call the `generateText` method of the service. This method will only function if the service implements the "text_generation" capability - which all built-in services do, but there may be further custom AI services registered some of which may only support other capabilities such as "image_generation".

The recommended way to refer to any AI capabilities is by using the available constants on `aiServices.ai.enums.AiCapability` from the `aiServices` JavaScript global.

### Using the preferred model for certain capabilities

Here is an example of how to generate the response to a simple prompt, using the preferred model for text generation. Assume that the `service` variable contains an available service instance that supports `enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION` (e.g. based on the previous examples):

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

try {
	const candidates = await service.generateText(
		'What can I do with WordPress?',
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
		}
	);
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

Note: When calling the `generateText()` method, specifying the `enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION` capability is optional, as that is implied by calling that particular method.

### Using a custom model

You can also select a specific model from a service. Of course the available models differ per service, so if you intend to do use a custom model, you will need to handle this per service. If the service instance used may be from different service, you can use the `getServiceSlug()` method of the service to determine its slug. In this example, let's assume the `service` variable contains one of the `google` or `openai` services:

```js
const model = service.getServiceSlug() === 'openai' ? 'gpt-4o' : 'gemini-1.5-pro';
try {
	const candidates = await service.generateText(
		'What can I do with WordPress?',
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			model,
		}
	);
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

Note: Alongside the model property in the object, you may pass other configuration arguments supported by models of the respective service.

### Sending multimodal prompts

As mentioned in the [introduction section about sending data to AI services](./Introduction-to-AI-Services.md#sending-data-to-AI-services), passing a string to the `generateText()` method is effectively just a shorthand syntax for the more elaborate content format. To pass more elaborate content as a prompt, you can use content objects or part arrays. For example, if the AI service supports multimodal content, you can ask it to describe a provided image:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

const content = {
	role: enums.ContentRole.USER,
	parts: [
		{
			text: 'Briefly describe what is displayed in the following image using a single sentence.'
		},
		{
			mimeType: 'image/jpeg',
			fileUri: 'https://example.com/image.jpg'
		}
	]
};
try {
	const candidates = await service.generateText(
		content,
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature'
			capabilities: [
				enums.AiCapability.MULTIMODAL_INPUT,
				enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION,
			],
		}
	);
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

You can also pass an array of content objects. In this case, this will be interpreted as the history including previous message exchanges from the same chat.

### Processing responses

The `generateText()` model method returns an array of candidate objects that contains the alternative response candidates - usually just one, but depending on the prompt and configuration there may be multiple alternatives.

Every candidate in the list is an object, which allows you to access its actual content as well as metadata about the particular response candidate.

For example, you can use code as follows to retrieve the text content of the first candidate.

```js
let text = '';
for ( const part of candidates[ 0 ].content.parts ) {
	if ( part.text ) {
		if ( text ) {
			text += '\n\n';
		}
		text += part.text;
	}
}
```

This code example realistically should work in 99% of use-cases. However, there may be a scenario where the first candidate only contains non-text content. In that case the code example above would result in an empty string. Therefore, technically speaking it is the safest approach to first find a candidate that has any text content.

As this can be tedious, the AI Services API provides a set of helper methods to make it extremely simple. You can access the helper methods via `aiServices.ai.helpers` from the `aiServices` JavaScript global.

The following example shows how you can accomplish the above in a safer, yet simpler way:
```js
const helpers = aiServices.ai.helpers;
const text = helpers.getTextFromContents(
	helpers.getCandidateContents( candidates )
);
```

### Streaming text responses

Alternatively to using the `generateText()` method, you can use the `streamGenerateText()` method so that the response is streamed. This can help provide more immediate feedback to the user, since chunks with partial response candidates will be available iteratively while the model still processes the remainder of the response. In other words, you can print the text from these chunks right away, so that it almost looks as if the generative AI model was typing it. Especially for prompts that expect a larger response (e.g. more than one paragraph), streaming the response can have major benefits on user experience.

The `streamGenerateText()` method takes the same parameters as the `generateText()` method. Instead of returning the final candidates instance though, it returns a generator that yields the partial candidates chunks. This generator can be used to iterate over the chunks as they arrive.

The following example shows how you could use streaming:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;
const helpers = aiServices.ai.helpers;

try {
	const candidatesGenerator = await service.streamGenerateText(
		'What can I do with WordPress?',
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
		}
	);

	for await ( const candidates of candidatesGenerator ) {
		const text = helpers.getTextFromContents(
			helpers.getCandidateContents( candidates )
		);

		// Append text chunk to user-facing response.
	}
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

### Customizing the default model configuration

When retrieving a model using the `getModel()` method, it is possible to provide a `generationConfig` argument to customize the model configuration. The `generationConfig` key needs to contain an object with configuration arguments. These arguments are normalized in a way that works across the different AI services and their APIs.

Additionally to `generationConfig`, you can pass a `systemInstruction` argument if you want to provide a custom instruction for how the model should behave. By setting a system instruction, you give the model additional context to understand its tasks, provide more customized responses, and adhere to specific guidelines over the full user interaction with the model.

Here is a code example using both `generationConfig` and `systemInstruction`:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

try {
	const model = service.getModel(
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
			generationConfig: {
				maxOutputTokens: 128,
				temperature: 0.2,
			},
			systemInstruction: 'You are a WordPress expert. You should respond exclusively to prompts and questions about WordPress.',
		}
	);

	// Generate text using the model.
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

Note that not all configuration arguments are supported by every service API. However, a good number of arguments _is_ supported consistently, so here is a list of common configuration arguments that are widely supported:

* `stopSequences` _(string)_: Set of character sequences that will stop output generation.
	* Supported by all except `browser`.
* `maxOutputTokens` _(integer)_: The maximum number of tokens to include in a response candidate.
	* Supported by all except `browser`.
* `temperature` _(float)_: Floating point value to control the randomness of the output, between 0.0 and 1.0.
	* Supported by all.
* `topP` _(float)_: The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling.
	* Supported by all except `browser`.
* `topK` _(integer)_: The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling.
	* Supported by all except `openai`.

Please see the [`Felix_Arntz\AI_Services\Services\API\Types\Generation_Config` class](../includes/Services/API/Types/Generation_Config.php) for all available configuration arguments, and consult the API documentation of the respective provider to see which of them are supported.

## Generating image content using an AI service

Coming soon.

Commit message:

Include documentation section about using browser built-in AI in JavaScript (see #6).

docs/Accessing-AI-Services-in-JavaScript.md, after:

[Back to overview](./README.md)

# Accessing AI Services in JavaScript

This section provides some documentation on how to access AI services in JavaScript. This is relevant for any plugins that would like to generate content via client-side logic.

The canonical entry point to all of the JavaScript public APIs is the "ai-services/ai" datastore registered in WordPress's `wp.data` registry. The store object exposes various selectors that should be used to access the AI services. The concrete usage is best outlined by examples. For illustrative purposes, here is a full example of generating text content using the `google` service:

```js
const { isServiceAvailable, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( isServiceAvailable( 'google' ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
	try {
		const candidates = await service.generateText(
			'What can I do with WordPress?',
			{ feature: 'my-test-feature' }
		);
	} catch ( error ) {
		// Handle the error.
	}
}
```

Alternatively to hard-coding `'ai-services/ai'` for the store name, you can reference `aiServices.ai.store` from the `aiServices` JavaScript global.

Note that any of the selectors may temporarily return `undefined`, which should be interpreted as that the services are being loaded. **A return value of `undefined` does not mean that something was not found.** For that, the value `null` is used.

Additionally, calling `service.generateText` the above code example is a short-hand for retrieving the model using `service.getModel` and then calling `model.generateText`. For reference, the following code example does exactly the same as above, but more verbosely. With that approach, instead of passing the model parameters to the `generateText` method, you pass them to the `getModel` method, and the returned model will then use them for any generation tasks invoked on it. This approach can make sense if you want to reuse the same model for multiple generation tasks.

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;
const { isServiceAvailable, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( isServiceAvailable( 'google' ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
	try {
		const model = service.getModel(
			{
				feature: 'my-test-feature',
				capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
			}
		);
		const candidates = await model.generateText(
			'What can I do with WordPress?'
		);
	} catch ( error ) {
		// Handle the error.
	}
}
```

These short-hands exist for all generation methods on the model instance. You may instead call the respective method on the service instance, passing the model parameters as additional argument to it.

For more specific examples with explanations, see the following sections. In those examples, the short-hand syntax will be used.

## Retrieving an available AI service

To use any AI capabilities, you first have to retrieve an available AI service. Which AI services are available depends on the end user, e.g. the site owner. They are free to configure any of the registered AI services with credentials. While many sites will likely only have one AI service configured, some sites may have all services configured (e.g. if the site owner has subscriptions with all of them or if they are free to use).

### Using a specific AI service

You can pass the slug of a specific AI service to the `getAvailableService()` selector. Before doing so, it is recommended to first check whether the service available (i.e. configured by the user with valid credentials), using the `isServiceAvailable()` selector:

```js
const { isServiceAvailable, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( isServiceAvailable( 'google' ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

Alternatively, if you don't want to use the `isServiceAvailable()` selector, you need to check whether the `getAvailableService()` selector does not return `null`:

```js
const { getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
const service = getAvailableService( 'google' );
if ( service !== null ) {
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

### Using any available AI service

For many AI use-cases, relying on different AI services may be feasible. For example, to respond to a simple text prompt, you could use _any_ AI service that supports text generation. If so, it is advised to not require usage of a _specific_ AI service, so that the end user can configure whichever service they prefer and still use the relevant AI functionality you're implementing in your plugin. You can do so by passing arguments to the `hasAvailableServices()` and `getAvailableService()` selectors for which capabilities you require for what you intend to do (for example to generate text):

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

const SERVICE_ARGS = { capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ] };
const { hasAvailableServices, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( hasAvailableServices( SERVICE_ARGS ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( SERVICE_ARGS );
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

Alternatively, if you don't want to use the `hasAvailableServices()` selector, you need to check whether the `getAvailableService()` selector does not return `null`:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

const SERVICE_ARGS = { capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ] };
const { hasAvailableServices, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
const service = getAvailableService( SERVICE_ARGS );
if ( service !== null ) {
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

In some instances, you may have a preference for a few specific AI services that work well for your AI use-case - in those cases you can pass multiple slugs, to retrieve whichever one the user has configured:

```js
const SERVICE_ARGS = { slugs: [ 'google', 'openai' ] };
const { hasAvailableServices, getAvailableService } = wp.data.select( 'ai-services/ai' );
if ( hasAvailableServices( SERVICE_ARGS ) ) {
	const service = getAvailableService( SERVICE_ARGS );
	// Do something with the AI service.
}
```

## Generating text content using an AI service

Once you have retrieved an AI service, you can use it to get a text response to a prompt. You need to call the `generateText` method of the service. This method will only function if the service implements the "text_generation" capability - which all built-in services do, but there may be further custom AI services registered some of which may only support other capabilities such as "image_generation".

The recommended way to refer to any AI capabilities is by using the available constants on `aiServices.ai.enums.AiCapability` from the `aiServices` JavaScript global.

### Using the preferred model for certain capabilities

Here is an example of how to generate the response to a simple prompt, using the preferred model for text generation. Assume that the `service` variable contains an available service instance that supports `enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION` (e.g. based on the previous examples):

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

try {
	const candidates = await service.generateText(
		'What can I do with WordPress?',
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
		}
	);
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

Note: When calling the `generateText()` method, specifying the `enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION` capability is optional, as that is implied by calling that particular method.

### Using a custom model

You can also select a specific model from a service. Of course the available models differ per service, so if you intend to do use a custom model, you will need to handle this per service. If the service instance used may be from different service, you can use the `getServiceSlug()` method of the service to determine its slug. In this example, let's assume the `service` variable contains one of the `google` or `openai` services:

```js
const model = service.getServiceSlug() === 'openai' ? 'gpt-4o' : 'gemini-1.5-pro';
try {
	const candidates = await service.generateText(
		'What can I do with WordPress?',
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			model,
		}
	);
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

Note: Alongside the model property in the object, you may pass other configuration arguments supported by models of the respective service.

### Sending multimodal prompts

As mentioned in the [introduction section about sending data to AI services](./Introduction-to-AI-Services.md#sending-data-to-AI-services), passing a string to the `generateText()` method is effectively just a shorthand syntax for the more elaborate content format. To pass more elaborate content as a prompt, you can use content objects or part arrays. For example, if the AI service supports multimodal content, you can ask it to describe a provided image:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

const content = {
	role: enums.ContentRole.USER,
	parts: [
		{
			text: 'Briefly describe what is displayed in the following image using a single sentence.'
		},
		{
			mimeType: 'image/jpeg',
			fileUri: 'https://example.com/image.jpg'
		}
	]
};
try {
	const candidates = await service.generateText(
		content,
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature'
			capabilities: [
				enums.AiCapability.MULTIMODAL_INPUT,
				enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION,
			],
		}
	);
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

You can also pass an array of content objects. In this case, this will be interpreted as the history including previous message exchanges from the same chat.

### Processing responses

The `generateText()` model method returns an array of candidate objects that contains the alternative response candidates - usually just one, but depending on the prompt and configuration there may be multiple alternatives.

Every candidate in the list is an object, which allows you to access its actual content as well as metadata about the particular response candidate.

For example, you can use code as follows to retrieve the text content of the first candidate.

```js
let text = '';
for ( const part of candidates[ 0 ].content.parts ) {
	if ( part.text ) {
		if ( text ) {
			text += '\n\n';
		}
		text += part.text;
	}
}
```

This code example realistically should work in 99% of use-cases. However, there may be a scenario where the first candidate only contains non-text content. In that case the code example above would result in an empty string. Therefore, technically speaking it is the safest approach to first find a candidate that has any text content.

As this can be tedious, the AI Services API provides a set of helper methods to make it extremely simple. You can access the helper methods via `aiServices.ai.helpers` from the `aiServices` JavaScript global.

The following example shows how you can accomplish the above in a safer, yet simpler way:
```js
const helpers = aiServices.ai.helpers;
const text = helpers.getTextFromContents(
	helpers.getCandidateContents( candidates )
);
```

### Streaming text responses

Alternatively to using the `generateText()` method, you can use the `streamGenerateText()` method so that the response is streamed. This can help provide more immediate feedback to the user, since chunks with partial response candidates will be available iteratively while the model still processes the remainder of the response. In other words, you can print the text from these chunks right away, so that it almost looks as if the generative AI model was typing it. Especially for prompts that expect a larger response (e.g. more than one paragraph), streaming the response can have major benefits on user experience.

The `streamGenerateText()` method takes the same parameters as the `generateText()` method. Instead of returning the final candidates instance though, it returns a generator that yields the partial candidates chunks. This generator can be used to iterate over the chunks as they arrive.

The following example shows how you could use streaming:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;
const helpers = aiServices.ai.helpers;

try {
	const candidatesGenerator = await service.streamGenerateText(
		'What can I do with WordPress?',
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
		}
	);

	for await ( const candidates of candidatesGenerator ) {
		const text = helpers.getTextFromContents(
			helpers.getCandidateContents( candidates )
		);

		// Append text chunk to user-facing response.
	}
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

### Using the browser built-in on-device AI

In JavaScript the AI Services plugin allows using another service `browser`, additionally to using the third party API based AI services. This service relies on [Chrome's built-in AI APIs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/ai/built-in-apis), which allow using AI in the browser, running on device, which can be a great option for certain use-cases as it does not require paying for API access and does not involve sending your prompts to an external third-party API.

Note that these APIs are still in an experimental stage and are not yet rolled out completely. If you use Chrome and already have access to the APIs, you can use them through the AI Services plugin just like any other service's APIs. To see whether you have access, check if `window.ai.assistant` is available in your browser console. If not, you can [request to join the Early Preview Program](http://goo.gle/chrome-ai-dev-preview-join).

### Customizing the default model configuration

When retrieving a model using the `getModel()` method, it is possible to provide a `generationConfig` argument to customize the model configuration. The `generationConfig` key needs to contain an object with configuration arguments. These arguments are normalized in a way that works across the different AI services and their APIs.

Additionally to `generationConfig`, you can pass a `systemInstruction` argument if you want to provide a custom instruction for how the model should behave. By setting a system instruction, you give the model additional context to understand its tasks, provide more customized responses, and adhere to specific guidelines over the full user interaction with the model.

Here is a code example using both `generationConfig` and `systemInstruction`:

```js
const enums = aiServices.ai.enums;

try {
	const model = service.getModel(
		{
			feature: 'my-test-feature',
			capabilities: [ enums.AiCapability.TEXT_GENERATION ],
			generationConfig: {
				maxOutputTokens: 128,
				temperature: 0.2,
			},
			systemInstruction: 'You are a WordPress expert. You should respond exclusively to prompts and questions about WordPress.',
		}
	);

	// Generate text using the model.
} catch ( error ) {
	// Handle the error.
}
```

Note that not all configuration arguments are supported by every service API. However, a good number of arguments _is_ supported consistently, so here is a list of common configuration arguments that are widely supported:

* `stopSequences` _(string)_: Set of character sequences that will stop output generation.
	* Supported by all except `browser`.
* `maxOutputTokens` _(integer)_: The maximum number of tokens to include in a response candidate.
	* Supported by all except `browser`.
* `temperature` _(float)_: Floating point value to control the randomness of the output, between 0.0 and 1.0.
	* Supported by all.
* `topP` _(float)_: The maximum cumulative probability of tokens to consider when sampling.
	* Supported by all except `browser`.
* `topK` _(integer)_: The maximum number of tokens to consider when sampling.
	* Supported by all except `openai`.

Please see the [`Felix_Arntz\AI_Services\Services\API\Types\Generation_Config` class](../includes/Services/API/Types/Generation_Config.php) for all available configuration arguments, and consult the API documentation of the respective provider to see which of them are supported.

## Generating image content using an AI service

Coming soon.
